ECO 395 Homework 2: Taylor Neal
================

## 1) Data visualization: Capital Metro Data for UT

![](taylor-neal-hw2_files/figure-gfm/capmetro-hourly-1.png)<!-- -->

In the figure above, we consider mean number of Capital Metro boardings
during each hour of the day separately for each day of the week. Each
month in our data (September, October, and November) is plotted to
analyze any changes occurring during this time frame. The hour of peak
boardings (and the magnitude of peak boardings) remains quite consistent
across all weekdays with only a slight drop off observed for Fridays.
Weekends see far lower ridership. It is likely that the average
boardings for Mondays in September are relatively lower because the
Labor Day holiday is being averaged in as one of only four Mondays
during that month in 2018. And we would expect that ridership would be
lower on holidays given the decreased reliance on the metro system for
commuting. Similarly, the November lines for Wednesday, Thursday, and
Friday are likely lower because of the Thanksgiving holiday averaging in
amongst the typical weekdays. Overall, this figure seems to indicate
that mean boardings across typical workdays are remarkably consistent
based on this three month time frame.

![](taylor-neal-hw2_files/figure-gfm/boardings-vs-temp-1.png)<!-- -->

Each dot in the figure above represents number of boardings and
temperature during a 15min increment in our Sept.-Nov. 2018 Capital
Metro data. The data are faceted by hour of the day in order to compare
similar periods of any given day with differing temperatures to explore
temperature’s causal impact on boardings. Based on the resulting figure,
it does not appear that temperature has a noticeable impact on UT
student ridership when accounting for hour of the day and whether or not
it is a weekday / weekend.

## 2) Saratoga House Prices

TBU

#### Linear Regression Model

TBU

#### K-nearest-neighbor Regression Model

TBU

#### Conclusions and Model Performance

TBU

## 3) Classification and Retrospective Sampling

TBU

## 4) Children and Hotel Reservations

TBU
